TREX - Timed Release Encryption Xing-chains (#1165)
w3f/Grants-Program: applications/TREX_Network.md

The TREX project roots a new family of Web3 applications in the Polkadot ecosystem and is being actively developed with the Substrate framework.
It aims to support interoperation between parachains in the Polkadot ecosystem and enables a group of new applications with dTRE technology.
The TREX project was initialized to support an idea that needs immutable open records but is hidden until future events.
Applications like elections and blind bidding can be done on Web3 without relying on centralized services. Our team believes that TRE 
will support a new type of Web3 application which accelerates the adoption of Web3.

### Project Details

Our targeted clients are strategy markets and AI trading bot markets that need to build up their decentralized reputations (e. g. [tipranks.com](https://www.tipranks.com)).

- Core functionality in TREX network
![block structure](https://sat02pap001files.storage.live.com/y4mC7nJfXtBtZL0isK0XVuSb1OBHB6ULIEzLVL0nwHNrg81CyWAwQ-VL5bslF7EiXILsdqH6H0bNJ2zs8kVfOn7hYkdEt60_gZvt83AKPR-cHQLgaMvMA-7mpy7OUXcfHReEdp6V5g-xJd-jP7G5QjQBiMOwM0jEIbfnq1dYBNMYSGfo5K8TZeviKs75_qekYmL?width=877&height=428&cropmode=none)

> The core functionality in the TREX network includes a deterministic algorithm to generate an infinite series of public keys to encrypt data for future blocks (each block also has a timestamp that labels paired future events) and a PoW mining algorithm that serves dual purposes: seal a new block and release encrypted data corresponding to this new block. As shown in the above figure, similar to Bitcoin or any PoW type of blockchain, the hash value of the previous block will be included in the header data of the block, a design that guarantees that all historical data and transaction records cannot be changed because any changes to the earlier block data will cause the new blockchain to have to recalculate the nonce value, that is, rework. 

Reviewer: Can you explain what in detail you mean by:

> seal a new block

Our project is exclusively developed with Polkadot substrate ecosystems.

  1. Our [TREX node software](https://github.com/NexTokenTech/TREX) is based on the latest Substrate framework, which is under internal network test and is to be released as open source software.
  2. Our [TREX blockchain index engine](https://github.com/NexTokenTech/trex-archive) is based on the Substrate Archive. It releases timed-release encrypted data and archives dTRE data into a PostgreSQL database.
  3. For applications on the TREX network, we provide solutions including an [API library](https://github.com/NexTokenTech/trex-subxt) to our business partners who may use it to insert dTRE data on the TREX network and retrieve data with the TREX blockchain index engine.
  4. The DevOps tool uses [Terraform](https://www.terraform.io) to automate the deployment of the TREX infrastructure with other backend services on cloud computing platforms so that our targeted clients can easily integrate the dTRE technology with their existing services.

- Documentation of core components, protocols, architecture, etc. to be deployed

Our white paper is our core documentation.

> <iframe src="https://onedrive.live.com/embed?cid=BEF98A7CB59E1060&resid=BEF98A7CB59E1060%21106391&authkey=AGFFIH66aCaJ9Yw&em=2" width="800" height="400" frameborder="0" scrolling="no"></iframe>

Reviewer: `iframe`s are [not supported](https://github.github.com/gfm/#disallowed-raw-html-extension-) by GitHub markdown, could you remove it and maybe replace it with a normal link?

### Milestone 1 — XCMP Integration

- **Estimated Duration:** 1 month
- **FTE:**  2
- **Costs:** 10,000 USD

| Number | Deliverable | Specification |
| -----: | ----------- | ------------- |
| 0a. | License | MIT License
| 0b. | Documentation | We will provide both **inline documentation** of the code and a basic **tutorial** that explains how a parachain can route a dTRE message to the TREX network.|
| 0c. | Testing Guide | Core functions will be fully covered by unit tests to ensure functionality and robustness. In the guide, we will describe how to run these tests. |
| 0d. | Docker | We will provide a Dockerfile(s) that can be used to test all the functionality delivered with this milestone. |
| 0e. | Article | We will publish an online blog that explains how this module works as described in the following figure.
| 1. | Substrate module: XCMP | Provide run-time pallet to process cross-chain requests to put dTRE data on the TREX blockchain.

> | 2. | TREX node update | The TREX node is updated to provide any necessary low-level supports for XCMP protocal and cross-chain dTRE data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| 2. | TREX node update | The TREX node is updated to provide any necessary low-level support for XCMP protocol and cross-chain dTRE data.
```

### Milestone 2 — Implement TREX Mining Pool Server and Client Software

- **Estimated duration:** 2 months
- **FTE:**  2
- **Costs:** 20,000 USD

| Number | Deliverable | Specification |
| -----: | ----------- | ------------- |
| 0a. | License | MIT License
| 0b. | Documentation | We will provide both **inline documentation** of the code and a basic **tutorial** that explains how a content creator can generate tradable content and a user can gain early access to this content with a fee. |
| 0c. | Testing Guide | Core functions will be fully covered by unit tests to ensure functionality and robustness. In the guide, we will describe how to run these tests. |
| 0d. | Docker | We will provide a Dockerfile(s) that can be used to test all the functionality delivered with this milestone. |
| 0e. | Article | We will publish an online blog that explains how this module works as described in the following figure.

> | 1. | TREX mining server | A TREX node which host a mining pool and access connection from remote miners and send rewards to miners. To protect the consensus against attacks from cluter computers, the mining pool needs to host a large hash table so that the mining efficiency is close to the cluster architecture coordinated by a center.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| 1. | TREX mining server | A TREX node which host a mining pool and access connection from remote miners and send rewards to miners. To protect the consensus against attacks from computer clusters, the mining pool needs to host a large hash table so that the mining efficiency is close to the cluster architecture coordinated by a center.
```

Author: Hi, I think what I descrbied is not about network consensus but encryption strength. The timed-release encryption is basically a crypto system which allow user to encrpyt data and decrypt it automatically in predetermined future. What I mean is you need to get more computing power than the network to get earlier access independently to the encrypted contents than everyone else in the network. This is not about to take over the blockchain but decrypt the encrypted contents. For the consensus, you need to have 51% or more hash power to take the blockchain, which is the same as other PoW blockchains.

For the ASIC-resistancy, it is about its hash function. Our algorithm can interface with different hash function, if some hash function have ASIC to accelerate, we could change to other hash function which is ASIC-resistant. The hash function is essentially providing peusdo-randomness in building the graph and finding the collision to solve the puzzle (which is the encryption scheme), thus, many hash function works with our algorithm framework (e. g. SHA256, BLAKE3, etc). I am working on some documentation to explain more about the algorithm. I could also explain it to you if you are interested.
